# Exercícios da Seção 1.1

### 1.1.1 :us:

What is the difference between a compiler and an interpreter?

A compiler is a program that can read a program in one language - the source language - and translate it into an equivalent program in another language – the target language and report any errors in the source program that it detects during the translation process.

Interpreter directly executes the operations specified in the source program on inputs supplied by the user.

#### 1.1.1 🇧🇷

pt: Qual é a diferença entre um compilador e um interpretador? 

#### Resposta

### 1.1.2

What are the advantages of:
(a) a compiler over an interpreter
(b) an interpreter over a compiler?

#### Resposta

a. The machine-language target program produced by a compiler is usually much faster than an interpreter at mapping inputs to outputs.

b. An interpreter can usually give better error diagnostics than a compiler, because it executes the source program statement by statement.

### 1.1.3

What advantages are there to a language-processing system in which the compiler
produces assembly language rather than machine language?

#### Resposta

The compiler may produce an assembly-language program as its output, because
assembly language is easier to produce as output and is easier to debug.

### 1.1.4

A compiler that translates a high-level language into another high-level
language is called a *source-to-source* translator. What advantages are there to
using C as a target language for a compiler?

#### Resposta

For the C language there are many compilers available that compile to almost
every hardware.

### 1.1.5

Describe some of the tasks that an assembler needs to perform.

#### Resposta

It translates from the assembly language to machine code. This machine code is
relocatable.
